Lumen Explorer Version 1.0.0
---------------------------------
Lumen explorer is a (image processing - machine learning - topology) pipeline 
developed by Haitham Seada at Kim Boekelheide's lab in the center of Predictive
Biology at Brown University. The pipeline detects and calculates the
volumes of lumens in 3D MCF7 cell cultures. The pipeline applies a combination
of image processing operators to the images generated by an Opera Phenix
High-Content Screening System. These images are the the 2D slices (z-slices)
of the original 3D cell culture. After manually
marking enough lumens in the images, a deep learning neural network preset to
handle general imaging data is re-purposed (transfer learning) to detect
lumens. 2D lumens detected in close 2D slices are then grouped into 3D stacks of
lumens. Some corrections may be applied to the stack once formed. Finally,
the volume of each of these stacks is calculated.  

DEPENDENCIES
------------
- This code was developed using NetBeans. Although using other IDEs is possible,
using NetBeans to run and modify this code is the easiest.

- The application uses MATLAB binaries (JAR files) for image processing, deep
learning and volumetric analysis. All JAR files and their original MATLAB
source codes can be found in this repository.

- Unless you have the same exact MATLAB Runtime used to create these JARs
(R2018a (9.4)) you will need to re-generate the JARS (re-compile the MATLAB
code into JARs). For this purpose you can also find the required .prj files
attached. Open each using your version of MATLAB and click "Package" in the
MATLAB compiler screen.

- In the dependencies block of build.gradle and update the paths of 
javabuilder.jar (the library needed by Java to call MATLAB generated JARs),
lumenClassify.jar, lumen_detection.jar and lumenAnalysis.jar

- Finally, in properties.properties file, update the paths of working-dir (root
output directory), final-output (final output directory under working-dir,
contains the final volumes, surface areas and figures) and
preclassification-dir (intermediate output directory under working-dir, stores
intermediate sub-images that are yet to be verified bt the deep learning
classifier)

FEATURES
--------
- Enhances and views images generated by an Opera Phenix High-Content Screening
System
- Exports enhanced images
- Detect Lumens in 2D z-slices
- Group related 2D lumens into a 3D structures
- Calculate and stores the volumes and surface areas of the final 3D lumens

GETTING STARTED
---------------
- Install NetBeans
- Clone the repo on your local file system
- Open the project using NetBeans
- Go through the steps in the DEPENDENCIES section of this documentation
- Run the project from the run icon in NetBeans 

BUILT USING
-----------
Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 8 or later
(http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html)

VERSIONING
----------
We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning.

AUTHORS
-------
Haitham Seada (http://www.haithamseada.com/)

LICENSE
-------
Apache License Version 2.0